initial copy of LATISS filter change procedure (#1)
lsst-sitcom/sitcomtn-029: index.rst

   This document explains the procedure of what to do when a new filter is added (or going to be added) to the system. Several steps are required in order to ensure ingestion by the Butler such that the data can be served.

Introduction
============

Adding a filter or disperser to LATISS is a multi-step procedure that spans the DM and T&S subsystems.
This technote is a list of things to do in order to have the data be taken with the correct metadata, as well as what it takes to get the files ingested on the summit.

.. important::

   The most time critical step is updating filters.py (see below) and having it be built in a regular weekly that is accessible from the summit environment.

>    Weeklies are built on Thursday nights, and can't be deployed until Friday at the earliest.

Reviewer: DM builds weeklies Wed night/Thu morning, but I'm not sure how long it takes Tiago to pick that up.  I thought it was pretty rapid.

   This needs to be done either inside the container (temporary) or by updating the cycle.env file, then rebuilding and redeploying the ATSpectrograph CSC (which is the proper way). 

4. Check that the filter is in the `filters.py file of obs_lsst <https://github.com/lsst/obs_lsst/blob/main/python/lsst/obs/lsst/filters.py>`_.
   If not, follow the DM development process of making a ticket, making the change, running the CI tests, and getting it reviewed and merged.
   The changes will be available in the next weekly.

5. Update the OODS container to use the new ``obs_lsst`` that contains the changes (if not done by a cycle deployment).

6.	Once everything built and deployed, the butler needs to have the registry updated to say the filter exists. So each butler repo (on each instance such as the test stands) need to run the following from the command line wherever the new ``obs_lsst`` is installed. At the summit, this can be done from inside a Nublado instance (and probably the other places too). Note that $OODS_REPO_PATH needs to be populated or replaced. On the summit it is ``/repo/LATISS``

   .. code-block::

		butler register-instrument $OODS_REPO_PATH lsst.obs.lsst.Latiss
		

> 7. The USDF auto ingester must also have the instrument registered and auto-ingester started (TBR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The USDF embargo Butler auto ingestion service must also be restarted with the appropriate weekly, after registering the instrument in the embargo Butler repo (and also the main Butler repo).
```
